# ERodrigues_WritingAssignment1_CIS1250

Ethan Rodrigues 1277308
Repository: ERodrigues_WritingAssignment1_CIS 1250

Writing Assignment 1

The software design process is how problems presented to programmers are turned into a blueprint for creating software. Its main focuses are the questions: “what are you solving” and “who is using the product”. This process involves being faced with a problem, understanding and documenting the problem, designing and implementing solutions to the problem and then testing the solution. It is often exemplified by the waterfall process: gather requirements, design, implement, test, maintain. Another approach to this process is the agile method where more time is spent on planning and gathering requirements for small iterations of the solutions to the problem. 
Software design and planning before the programming process is very important because it gives the developers a better idea of client expectations, resulting in a better user experience. If you begin developing a solution to a problem before clearly designing how the problem will be solved, the program may not accurately solve the problem or produce errors. There must be clearly defined requirements, outlined by the client that define the users, non-standard terms, user terms, priorities and categories of development to create an effective piece of software. 
One software that I have used that I personally think has effectively prioritized effective software design is the website of Apple, a company that manufactures and sells technological products such as phones and laptops. I believe that their website is designed well because it is easy to navigate and it displays their products in a way that is appealing, with large images, interactive diagrams and colorful design. When opening the homepage of the website, their newest product that customers are more likely to be interested in is displayed in a large image with appealing words like “strong”, light”, and “pro”. They also have a navigation bar at the top of their website with a list of the different services, products and support offered by the company. Included in this section is a search function that allows users to find their desired information. These features provide a feeling of elegance for the brand while keeping the customers engaged. When I used the site, its functions worked effectively and gave me the impression that there was an extensive amount of planning in the design process of this software. 
